I'd like to welcome you to session 110
overview of Mac OS 10 networking api's
my name is Tom wire I'm a consulting
engineer in our field engineering group
and I have the fortune of introducing
this session there's a lot of things in
Makka left n that have changed over the
years a lot of new features have come
into the operating system and there's a
lot of material in this session as you
saw in the keynote we have new VPN
functionality new enhanced support for
ipv6 and a number of other key features
so with that I'd like to welcome up I'd
like to welcome Vincent lube a manager
of core OS networking good morning so
this is what we're going to go through
today so we're going to start with a
brief overview of the Mac os10
networking a little bit the architecture
what the new features and then we are
going to dwell in to a networking
networking API they have a lot of
networking API so it will be a
relatively high level just more a list
of features and maybe hopefully you will
have some some ID which you know
depending of your knees which API to use
and basically we have system level API
and then also framework api's from a
clear goal and Becky will do the second
part talking about the frameworks so we
have ongoing goals and they haven't
changed since last year and the year
before I think so the ease of use we'd
like to have the networking be as
transparent as possible you know so one
one great example is horrible
the other zeroconf fo performance also
go important we have the same kernel the
fun zone on a laptop or an also on an
excel so performance and scalability is
an ongoing goal for us extensibility
that a common feature from you from a
lot of developers and also standard
compliant whenever we can speak to stand
out we would like to do it so the curve
of the networking is in in the in the
corner that Darwin layer and basically
that where we r us that we talk start
that is not used very much these days
but the tip also the tcp/ip stack and
all of that would cost services and a
lot of time ourselves the applications
environment so my quest and the stack is
based on on freebsd last year web data
to suggest the 3.7 i remember something
like that no fog and so with that you
get the so it's a unix-like protocol
stack cbse so you have a lot of code
that runs on other universes that are
very easy to bottle my question the CCP
stack includes architects and ipv6 when
introduced at last you've already so we
still have superb horrible talk fully
most access suite of protocol based on
PPP the seconds with the firewall and
also not email the cool stuff we have we
have added two unique dynamic
configuration based on on the framework
with a plug-in architecture so that the
part with
we're trying to push the the system so
that the configuration reconfigure
automatically and of course we have on
table and that was the major
breakthrough of last year so what's your
incentive so more only we are aware
application and services so she went to
the three oxidation yesterday I used to
a lot more applications and that you are
like I'd like to sorry and more Webb
also more ipv6 aware application and
services one of the so for example AFP
the one that you are an inventor runs
over ipv6 we are introducing also an
ipsec VPN I got a tow to the twin x four
link layer of application even better
support for mobility and WebKit and all
the safari framework and a lot more so
we're going to go through a little bit
so a CO 2 dot when X is a link layer
application that means that that's an
open user authentication that allows
that that runs before really the your
link can can go up so it's it's really
the come to be the prevalence a way to
secure wireless LAN but also it's also
use the internal switch environment for
Ethernet and in infancy we support the
wide range of application method a 22
the 20 x is still a young protocol so
not clear which of those of application
protocol will be the equivalent but we
support you know all that list that has
the one and that are used by fiscal
microsoft and other vendors the apple
VPN so it's a client and server and so
we use the IP check for the provider
ready the sexual sexual layer and we use
also l2tp for interoperability
vsvp is in fact it's it's running PPP
over over unity and that provides
interoperability with windows fiscal and
things like that that's really the the
really delicious standard VPN photocall
out there and so we quicker a yes for
the encryption for those who know the
cryptographic algorithm its exploitation
but we still support cripple death and
other an algorithm and we have also
added support for secure ID as very
popular ways to provide the user
notification so having a lot of deployed
in your company but you have also other
photos of an S chart also v2 and things
like that so we are the different level
of networking API so that just shortly
and we are going to go through that in
the drive to the station so first going
to start by them the bottom if you like
that sort of the system level API it's
more or less what you find in Dow in the
open source implementation so i'll start
with the vsd socket so that the
fundamental api for networking
everything else is it mostly every other
networking api is based on bsd socket
and so that's the one you use to get the
most out of the system that that's the
rocks s to the to the colonel is done
yes okay so when will you forget for
performance so she 17 government so if
you're writing a server application with
the US
insurance two of the most of the of the
system you have a very fine control of
what what's happening you have access to
all the low level low level control
complete ID sig.png RV and things like
that next up about that and also bsd so
it brings unique compatibility and
possibility so on windows that winter
collectively closed so it also need it's
a good a good way to ensure
profitability with the beardy tail gate
comes the resolve a library so it
provides name and address resolution and
in fact they are there are 22 level of
api's so some of them works with other
or lymph system not only the dns and it
goes on and with the socket API in
center they been updated to bind line to
the latest and greatest and we are also
full and tv6 support that means that you
can resolve an IP ipv6 address using the
the resumption but also you can resolve
aerobic different and each and we fix so
it's the the full the full set so
idealistic so we implement the standard
API out of forgetting an extension of
the basic socket API something that we
turn off that was the nice nice
functionality was mapped address that we
are able to use when you wanna serve
where you work for multiple we're using
just just one socket a v6 circuit and
because this accelerated a
larger-than-life addresses with the
option of maps address you could have
also christoval so before before
connection on the circuit for security
reasons we visible that by default it's
off the disabled bodies off by default
because
some security reason implication they
are some implementation out there that
in fact use gonna lead the way to
eternal vitro increases and sometime it
like that firewalls and people are not
very happy with that so in answer it was
value for the field circuit option if
you know what you're doing you can use
it my question does internal different
physics but they are following
generation that do and so with the DNS
over ipv6 inventor and so the idea here
is for application last year we are the
Food Association on on ipv6 and how to
do code for advice family independent
it's it's really easy to write the
program that's probably what we saw andy
sixx that's why those aps are after that
and we encourage you to do that and so
the one of the web stuff about diseases
only who works over ipv6 so I thing any
a very easy way to find out services and
test stuff on the network I don't need
to ever with ipv6 you don't need to ever
and infrastructure we fix as
automatically configure our addresses
link-local addresses on all the
interfaces so you can find services it
works perfectly with my GMA will be on
the system ipsec all right IP level
security from within the camel the
bottom of the struck by we support a
bunch of the number of API to set those
security policy and Association database
the world those are the kind of the
filter of the tells you what traffic to
to anchor it using IPSec that the PSD so
cal ipi successfully hit the library
function and also you can either just
forget control so we thought you already
a few jaguar f you
application of us application using a
decade gap so the new thing is that in
intention we also using a piece XL VPN
so there is something that is something
to remember is that this is a single
Shadley system white crystals so and
it's managed by a hacker the internet
key exchange the one the protocol that
exchange the key is managed by a single
diamond callicoon and so the single
resource so please if you use IPSec make
sure you don't override another question
answers or taking some other application
and with added also not possible in
intent well thats something that's truly
in these days with a lucky revenant and
so we support that that it's not just
ordered it still a ITF class but that's
what will you that's the best that's the
way to have a nut with a TS exact so
most likely to be interoperable of the
expansionist order so we have an ID
firewall that works so with ipv6
inventor and again just like with ipsec
and BR cool it's a single system-wide
resource so with ipsec you you can
design filter actions to do on certain
type of packets but just remember a
single word resource and just like so
far about you've certainly notice that
the built-in firewall will not will not
chemicals on if detects there are other
words on the system so the big denied
and also overwrite other people hold on
you can ask the user if you want to
flush those and there are two ways to
control the firewall there's a comment
line IPA
value and also just straight forget
option PSN grv circuit so PSN dear mr.
gates are so getting that allows to you
to write users based protocols that
means that they they really that
facility we have in the kernel using
this type of circuit 2 to send the role
ethernet frames up to two years of space
and we use that with a 2 2 dot when x
exam internet protocol in fact and so
that that's a great way to stay out of
the corner and if it's also use a total
can be used to implement all the
protocol stacks that are being specific
for an application like decnet or ipx on
orders there are other solutions so that
you also can be used instead of peer can
be Aristocats also to implement user
space port o call those are all set to
the digest circuits that worked with the
firewall and MVPs the Berkeley packet
filter so we even though the state of
the internal API for the top generic
extension we really like to if possible
that you use us intimate report volume
in your space if possible so that joint
can be sure that there's no problem
option compatibility in the future so
let's talk about the problem I mean the
network expansion so today that they are
the nke are tied to the colonel
implementation so we cannot really say
that we have an API 3d will provide
hooks wear extensions can can really get
to the internal mechanisms that Hydra is
going to break it broke in the past
every time we will never speak for
example or want to to improve
performance we have to think about it is
going to break a third-party kernel
extensions so if you came to the
decision about the DePiano yesterday
morning you certainly aware that we are
working on on your new API that will I
isolate the extension from the
implemented internal implementation of
the camera and it's not it really is
underway and we certainly liked you or
your occupation and feedback because we
are going to do certainly some drastic
changes in their system configuration so
that the condition for the our mobility
solution and it's it's based on a
diamond and a couple set of API so we
are set of epi to manage assurances
that's the one that I use for example by
the network's accounts panel so if those
are system wide local catherine 444 big
holes and we have also NEPA to get the
status about the state of some
parameters so that that's the basis for
the dynamic behavior so there are
modifications when the desert changes in
the state of some data or key or the
questions and they are used today i also
buy a lot of ugly applications for the
whole ISPs once will provide their own
dialogue they deduce that and also
application that how they can
dynamically react to a networking change
using the status and is used in
enforceable by nayland safari and also
the basis for the dynamic demand so what
an application they use usually the
presidency I just talked about are more
used by four to manage the configuration
that we are napi called the SD network
capability api that allows to to check
whether set of maybe nel addresses of
Paracelsus love inventor can are
reachable which ability doesn't it's not
a guarantee that the for example the
distant host is you can really connect
two distant holes but what it says is
that from the standpoint of the of the
system locally on the machine there's an
IP address a router if there are maybe
there's also dns server configure and so
it's this recipe is so unified a set of
information you know it gives you a
synthetic view of it so when to use AC
network capability so you know it just
to tell you is the you have a chance to
connect to the server maybe this server
is so it will not tell you there's a
fire wall of your problem with nut or
things like that you know things outside
of the control of the system but the
visit that you can tell you the the
system is properly configure so the when
they were changing the in connectivity
that's you have the chance to to clean
up and maybe to provide some feedback to
the user for example CF circuit stream
use that on only three circuits
dr. Vickie going to talk about the CF
cerca di you to be later on but our own
framework skews the vcp is Veggie p.m.
so something new in center that works in
fact with the reachability API is the
net SD network connection API the this
is the VI that enabled dine on demand
from within the application so and it's
similar to the TPP remote access epi we
add on unlike last seven eight nine so
the ID so today what you what we are is
really something that we call audible
dialogue traffic so if you enable that
Katherine's in the MVP the BBB every
time it sees that some some some data is
to be sent in it will guide the modem
and that's because of a lot of fun plans
because it's the system dials at the
most inopportune time so what we want to
do is instead with with having this with
this new API to enable application they
refer to put to be in control and they
can decide or maybe from the user so I
need to get on the network emoji of me
and the Freak work to die only to die
yes no and so far it's great for many
clients and and also that the same API
that is used not only for application
but also for diagnosis different set of
parameters the internet connector on
internet connection better using TCP I
so we would like to you to adopt this
applies or put together this particular
sample code just to show you a roasting
polity so
so for example this is how to to tell if
you want to call her to access that will
double the double decker what you would
do you would you would call SD network
HIV key create with name so when you
pass the 77 m and then you use it if I a
call back with these for this reference
you get microvessels and specify your
call back from Anderson even that
happens for the data change in the
ability of the video is at apple.com
your code back will be called and you
just schedule it with your run loop so
it was great for our application above
the BFD they are editing and you just
run the random and then this is the H
ability call back when you get another
basically the really the major result is
the flag that tells you to set of likes
you get but the ones actually
interesting here is the weather it's
whichever normal and they are all sub
slags and well give tells you if the
connection is required and now in other
if the server away so if you need to
start the connection you just have to
use the connection API and the stop
connection epi huge usually when you are
not a dialer you just want to use the
default the most certainly the most
current connection the the use of it
with internet connect so you just tell
the do so just copy the use of the
current restaurant and you tell the
system to to create a reference again
because that's the kind of
the hook the endpoint that you will use
and again it it's a can even best
mechanisms so you use scheduling the run
loop to to be ready to receive a run and
then use you call the start and you're
ready system should we don't need and
again when they have to an event on the
on the connection if you mean call back
and hear of the the main event to which
you are very similar to do cannot access
epi and it just really disconnected
connecting connected disconnecting and
case of error are you getting the Reaper
and when you're done you close the
connection so the one point in the DCP I
the the connection as our last contact
that means that the idea that the when
the the connect when your occupation
doesn't doesn't need to to use the
system certainly you would like to the
the modern to disconnect so you just
release the connection if there were
some other applications using the
connection it will still hold the
reference on the connection so it's also
on the last reference that the
connection will be calm down and and
with that I'd like to oh no one more
thing last but not least that was my
butt is the is the dns service discovery
API saw those after the Holloway p I
there was a session yesterday about Oh
something is wrong here the decision not
gonna programming that it that's the
hollywood p is one or two so the name
service discovery I saw the foundation
for Hollywood and urs you have set of
API to do register name services
also an API to browse our services on
the who is really something for end user
so that's the idea that the end user
will peak intrusion service it's not so
it's not so great for for background
connections because really ladies that
the user choose browse something and
just remember the name and then when
it's time to connect to that service you
have an ETA to resolve and the service
into an address on it cause you can use
in subsequent search on a conference
call we have a3p BHT ph levels depending
what level your application what can
type of epi your application is using so
we have the dns service discovery API
it's a system level API that's the
foundations of the other one in CF
network there's the CF net services so
if you're on loop you know it's sudden
it would be the natural way to use and
in cocoa there's an SMS services that
works for code objective-c and now with
that I'd like to introduce the bqe which
is going to talk about high marks
[Applause]
thanks Vincent so visit has taken you
through the basic feature set of what's
available direct from the Darwin system
what's available at the Berkeley sockets
layer and what I'm going to do now is
talk about what we've built on top of
that into the framework layers above it
so I was thinking about how to prepare
this talk and it seemed with the
introduction of Safari 10 the best way
to look at those api's was to look at
what Safari has built upon and that's
how we're going to start out after that
I'm going to talk briefly about some of
the other networking technologies on the
system and finally I'm going to give you
some tips and hints on how you can
transition off some of the older mac OS
9 based api's so let's talk for a moment
about the Safari technologies when we
started writing Safari we of course
built on the technologies we already had
on built on top of the existing api's
but we also discovered a lot of places
where those api's were lacking and so we
developed many new AP is at the same
time and now we've made those api's
available to you that's part of the
Safari SDK as you've already heard from
the keynote those api's are available on
any Panther system and on any Jaguar
system provided safari 10 has been
installed and I do not have enough time
to go into those api's in great detail
so I'm going to point you to some other
sessions as we go including session 403
which took place on Tuesday but when you
get the dvds you can take a look at it
Don Melton gave a pretty good overview
of all of those API is in greater detail
than I'm going to have time for so what
goes into Safari it's on Mac OS 10 so
you know the core of the networking has
to be bsd sockets but there's a lot of
stuff between sockets and what
ultimately is the safari application and
the first layer in that stack is core
foundation a core foundation provides a
couple different important things it's
not really a networking library per se
but it provides a couple basic
abstraction for us first and foremost
the run loop the run loop is how all of
the different interests
events inside an application get
funneled into a single callback
mechanism on our system so if you look
at NS run loop or carbon events that's
how user events ultimately are
transmitted and it provides our basic
ation including mechanism CF URLs basic
abstraction for URL pure data type and
those two kind of come together with CF
socket which provides a way to take a
socket a file descriptor and connect it
into the run loop so rather than having
to manage a select loop yourself or a
file descriptor set yourself you can use
CF socket to get that input managed in
the same way that all the other user
events are managed CF socket can handle
literally any socket it works with most
file descriptors too but we we only
promise it with every true socket that
includes UDP sockets as well as server
side except sockets built on top of CF
socket is CF stream CF stream is just a
basic stream app abstraction you get a
stream you open it you read it
eventually you close it if you're
unlucky it errored out somewhere along
the way it's hooked into the run loop so
that it can signal the client your
application whenever bytes are available
or something interesting has happened
however because it's a stream based API
it only really works with TCP sockets it
doesn't make much sense to talk about a
stream for an accept socket or a UDP
socket so that's core foundation you
take a step up some core foundations we
get to CF Network CF network is the
library on our system that provides the
basic protocol implementations this is
where our HTTP stack lives this is where
the ftp stack lives we don't CF network
itself does not actually provide the ssl
implementation but it provides all the
hooks into SSL and TLS so if you've got
a upstream you want to make it
secure CF network provides the hooks to
run SSL over the socket stream and
finally rendezvous this is a Vincent
mentioned that there's anything pardon
me Vincent mentioned see us
services which is the API that we that
CF network provides for accessing
rendezvous the basic goal besides CF
network is to provide you with those
protocol implementations and hook them
into the run loop however our goal with
CF network was not to be the most
convenient API there are higher level ap
is that provide that convenience at this
level we're trying to give you full
control what that means is that all the
protocol details are fully exposed so
there's a lot of power implied with that
there's nothing you can do with HTTP for
instance that you cannot do through CF
network but on the other hand you better
know HTTP or the CF Network api's aren't
going to make a lot of sense to you
other ways we give you full control at
the CF network layer you have complete
control over precisely when the reads
and writes are done again this can be a
pain if you're not actually interested
in the details but if you need that
control this is the layer to get it at
likewise the threading policy we do not
dictate a threading policy for you at
this level at higher levels you will see
some api's will actually take care of
spawning background threads for you for
instance but not at this level couple
things new and CF network with panther
we've added DNS host resolution this is
asynchronous host resolution so you can
start a request to look up the address
of yahoo com or anything and you'll get
a call back later on telling you when
when that address is available we've
also added ftp support inside TF network
and for more information about CF
network come to the session excuse me
session 1 12 tomorrow afternoon at 5pm
yeah ok last talk of the conference but
what do you want ok so what do we have
above CF network well I mentioned some
convenience ap is that do not expose as
many of the details to you that's what
these new foundation URL API s are all
about
it's a new set of API is in Panther it's
a full-featured set of URL loading api's
and here the point is for the API to be
as convenient and abstract as possible
so the policy is to make most of the
choices for you does that mean that you
can't modify those choices if you want
an unusual setup no of course you can
but the policy is going to be to start
out by making the most common decision
for you and then you kind of have to
undo those decisions whereas if CF
Network the policy was that you have to
apply each and every policy decision
yourself the API is asynchronous
building on the run loop of course it's
basically callback based if you're
familiar with the cocoa API paradigms we
do it via delegate and at this level we
add extensibility via subclassing so if
you got to have the Gopher scheme
implementation we don't provide it for
you but there's a class you can subclass
to implement it yourself and get it
plugged into the entire URL loading
system and again it's part of the
foundation library so it's built right
into the core and available to you at
that layer and for more information
about these go to session for 18 this
afternoon where we'll be talking about
these AP is and much greater depth than
i'll have time to go into here but just
to give you a flavor for the API here
are the basic abstractions you start out
by creating an nsurl request this
encapsulate everything all the
information needed to configure a URL
download so the URL itself if you have a
custom user agent and you're doing HTTP
you can set it there proxy settings all
of that goes into the request once
you've got a request you build a
connection from the request the
connection represents the ongoing
download the connection has a delegate
that's the nsurlconnection delegate and
you use that to to get information about
how your connection how the download is
proceeding finally what you're going to
get back from the delegate is the data
of course but also an nsurlresponse--
object that encapsulates everything
that's not actually part of the data so
that includes things like the mime type
like the HTTP headers that came back
and then I just want to highlight
briefly the other api's or the other
features that are built into the
foundation URL api's I've listed each
and every class here but I'm just going
to talk about the major bullet points to
explain the features caching caching
happens automatically with this API
there's both an on disk and in-memory
cache available and used cookie storage
and management all handled automatically
all shared for for a given user across
all applications unless you there are
preferences to change whether your
particular cookie is stored but by
default they'll be stored for the so
that all applications can access them
authentication and credential management
we've got a bunch of classes built in so
that you can know exactly who's asking
for a password whether there's a
password already available on the system
for your youth and give you everything
you need so you can prompt the user and
get that password if necessary and
finally the extensibility I mentioned so
I there's a class available nsurl
protocol that you can subclass if you
want to add your own particular scheme
that we do not provide so that takes us
all the way through the URL loading AP
is the last piece of course is WebKit
WebKit is new and Panther it's brand new
framework public framework and this is
the layer that actually does all the
rendering and navigation so it's what
actually draws to the screen and
interprets the user events is the user
clicks or move throughout the document
it's a fully plugged pluggable
architecture so that we you can support
rendering new kinds of document types we
of course handle HTML text and the image
types out of the box but in fact we
provide sample code in the SDK that
shows how you would extend WebKit to be
able to display PDF it's an objective C
API fully integrated with the app kit
classes so in fact the central class
webview is a subclass of NS view the SDK
also provides a bunch of example code
that shows how you can take that web
view and use it from a pure C or C++ API
and in
fully with carbon HIVs and carbon events
and for more information about that
there's a session tomorrow sometime I'm
not sure when but session 420 they're
going to go into the WebKit ap is in a
great much greater detail and that's the
full stack that's what goes into the
networking portion of Safari and I'm
going to touch briefly on these three
other networking api's web services NS
stream and launch services web services
is a framework we introduced in Jaguar
it provides a P is for issuing an xml
RPC or a soap request in Jaguar the API
was very focused on the client so if you
were a client and wanted to issue such a
request and receive a response from the
server we cover it all up we had api's
for that but starting in Panther we've
added support for server-side operations
so if you're on the other side of the
equation and need to interpret an
incoming request we can now help you do
that
NS dream is new in foundation in Panther
it's actually two different classes and
its input stream and NS output stream
their toll free bridge to CF reads tree
mmcf right stream which have existed for
a while and the reason why that's
important is because NS input and output
stream is designed for sub classing so
we received a lot of requests saying hey
I don't want to talk to a socket or I
need to interpose a data filter between
the actual bytes coming in from from the
network before you start processing it
how do I do that we can't really do that
with the capi but with NS stream we now
have a way to do that the subclass and
its input stream or output streams
insert the filter or extra data
processing you need and then thanks to
toll-free bridging you can take that
object and pass it directly into the AP
is that consumed read and write streams
and this was touched on briefly at
session 4 10 yesterday the cocoa update
where they talked about everything that
was new and foundation and app kit and
finally launch services well most of you
are familiar with launch services as the
API you use if you have a file and you
want to open it exactly the same way
finder does so you're probably thinking
what the heck that's not a networking
API well the fact is that launch
services is good at finding helper
applications of all kinds not just for
files so the launch services API is can
be used to open it an arbitrary URL as
well or to find out what application
would handle a particular mime type in
fact internet config which is an older
API that you may be more familiar with
calls through the launch services to
handle these kinds of services and so I
mentioned that of course to get to this
next point we have some older api's some
legacy api's but we're kind of
interested in getting you to transition
off of to some of the newer ones and
internet config is one of those are we
taking these api's away from you no of
course not they're still on the system
they'll continue to work the way they
always have worked but we're no longer
extending
these api is the way we're extending
some of the newer AP is that I've just
talked about these are the 4 i'm going
to address in particular URL access
manager and a few RL handles internet
config n OT so URL access manager
clients tend to use it in one of two
fashions either they have a one-off well
controlled transaction or they're doing
some kind of longer-lived transaction if
you're in that one off case where you
you know exactly the details of what you
want to do you know you're performing an
HTTP POST to a server you control you
set up as part of your business CS
network is probably the best way for you
to go with something like that gives you
full control of the details at that at
that kind of level you know the extra
abstraction almost gets in your way
because you know exactly what you're
trying to do on the other hand if you
want an API that's simpler kind of
one-shot tire and forget nsurlconnection
is the way to go and then if you're
using URL access in the other way where
you're performing some very long-lived
complex transaction where you don't want
to handle the details nsurl upload an
nsurl download are the two new glasses
in the URL 80 loading api's that are
available for that kind of functionality
nsurl handle in foundation it went
thought up excuse me the new URL loading
API is really superseded nsurl handle so
use nsurlconnection instead we've added
a compatibility shim that connects the
two engines so if you have some
investment in a URL handle subclass that
will continue to work as it always has
and not only that anyone using the new
API the URL connection API will
automatically see and talk to that
subclass as well works in the other
direction so if you have so if you have
have a URL handle based API you'll
actually see and call through to the new
foundation loading engine as well
internet config so if you're looking for
a helper app you're just trying to
figure out who should i use to open this
URL or who should i use to handle this
mime type call launch services directly
instead the other thing that we see an
internet config is access to these
system preferences things like the proxy
setting to get those talk directly to
system configuration instead finally
open transport we've been telling you
for at least three years now that open
transport is not your high performance
native networking solution on the system
the SD sockets is so as you're writing
new code we encourage you to use sockets
directly also when you're choosing your
networking code maybe sockets is not the
right layer for you and we encourage you
to think about whether one of the higher
level AP is that's going to provide
connection to the run loop for you well
maybe serve your needs better so that's
all the material I had for today I want
to continue to repeat this roadmap I've
talked about most of these already
though I did not talk about 411 internet
technologies which talked a lot about
the Safari technologies in the web and
kind of a general sense that took place
yesterday Vincent mentioned the
rendezvous talk also yesterday kernel
extensions CF network in depth is
tomorrow and then the feedback forum so
you don't like all that all of what I
just said come tomorrow morning at
ten-thirty some contact information
there and with that I'd like to ask Tom
wire back up on the stage for the QA oh
sorry should mention the documentation
there's a load of documentation for the
different networking available go go to
ADC home documentation networking and
pretty much every API have talked about
here everything that Vincent talked
about has documentation under that
heading